real estate is ugly I mean real ugly in
today's video we're going to look at all
aspects of real estate what's happening
getting down to the fine details I'm
going to explain exactly why this is the
case and it's not just in one place but
of course we're seeing it just about
everywhere I'm going to give you the
details you need to know let's begin you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you real estate it's a big
subject and we got to be careful using
these blanket terms like a big Market
craft
you don't have what happened back in
2008 very regularly that was an anomaly
and you can see that today it's a
different scenario there are problems
there are major problems but it's very
different so we're going to break down
those nuances so that we know what we
can do when the time is right let's get
into it here we go new homeowners won't
see a profit for over a decade and
because of what's going on obviously
with borrowing costs we are looking at
this today time to break even on a
typical us home purchase by down payment
amount so it goes from 3% to 20% and at
20% that is
113 okay and it depends on the interest
rate of course but they're assuming a 7%
interest rate right now many people are
getting it higher than that so it all
depends get comfy homeowners it can take
up to3
years to break even on your purchase
according to Zillow data shared
exclusively to axios why it matters you
have to stay in your house more than a
decade before you can sell and make a
profit but historically that was 5% five
years excuse me uh but it all depends on
the mortgage rates look at the cost to
buy a home you have this huge number and
people were saying yeah but the monthly
the monthly is low now it's not the case
you've got an extremely high
number whatever that is for your city
maybe it's a million dollar maybe it's
$800,000 maybe it's more maybe it's 2
million and on top of that you've got
this High interest rate so of course
that's burdening people people are going
to have to stay put and that means no
sales for a while until of course there
is a crisis and then everything can
reverse but until then this is what
we're dealing with remember you've got
to understand and the simple Market
fundamentals when we had the financial
crisis the housing crisis one thing was
for sure there were way too many homes
they were building subdivisions I
remember this very clearly in and around
the Las Vegas
area right in the desert just building
entire subdivisions nobody was living in
them and they just said eventually
people are going to move in because real
estate is this new thing they were
making it seem like it was you know
fancy new thing
they were building those subdivisions
but then financial crisis happens nobody
wanted them and they're in the middle of
the desert not a desirable area and so
uh-oh they became worthless and you know
what happened with all that debt now it
comes around where eventually those
places fill up and people get them and
maybe some of them are Airbnb and maybe
some of them are living fulltime But
ultimately what we can see now is that
the inventory circumstance particularly
in the you know welltoo the sought after
areas with the nice schools and the
lower crime these places are in demand
and look like they can remain strong but
if you're living in a city that never
should have been prominent in terms of
you know its
performance those ones are at risk more
importantly of course commercial real
estate is really the ugly duckling if we
can say that all right there is real
serious uncertainty around the world and
these issues are major major major
talking about LA and what's happened
with the real estate uh the strike is
really a problem the Mansion tax is an
issue the insurance situation is chaos
add to the fact that it's all
culminating in the summer which is dead
the dead than dead time to sell in La if
you don't have to sell you're not going
to right now and that is not just for LA
but look at other places there are new
taxes there are the burden of moving
when you do so you have to pay some sort
of fees lend transfer taxes real estate
fees moving fees I mean there's so many
things so people are just saying you
know what it's just you know let's just
stay let's just stay here let's just
make it happen people would rather add
an extension on their property versus
you know so on you know what I'm saying
right so a lot of people just staying
put for home buyers this housing market
is even worse than during the Great
session 2023 is shaping up to be a
record the lowest of home sales lowest
level home sales since 2008 so when I
say these things how how crazy these
things have been these are the kind of
pieces of information I can bring to you
and it's all about sales okay and for
these reasons I don't need to beat a
dead horse let's move on I could show
you that September home sales Dro to the
lowest level since the Foreclosure
crisis homeowners on the brink face a
tough choice of selling their home as
mortgage payments climb for a lot of
people this is what they're dealing with
in Canada of course you've got a problem
that's different than in the United
States because in the US you can get a
fixed term 25 year 30 year and you're
literally paying that same interest rate
for the whole period of time but if
you're in another country whether it's
Canada whether it's Australia you've got
to you know kind of renegotiate that
mortgage every 3 to five years depending
how you set that up and you're not
getting it longer than 10 years for sure
but that sweet spot for the interest
rate might be somewhere in that 3 to 5
year range and so a lot of that is
coming up now so they've got a very
difficult choice to make oh yeah it was
a $2 million home but I could afford it
it was no problem because the interest
rates were at Rock Bottom I was getting
that mortgage at 2% so it seemed like
nothing oh but now it has come point the
point in which I need to renegotiate
that mortgage and interest rates are way
up here uh oh uh no no no the government
better better do something fast I keep
hearing this all the time from people oh
no no the government's going to have to
cut rates fast are they or are people
going to have to do something about it
what is it are when they're if you know
if their
actual you know the amount of the
payment is going to be significantly
higher is it 30% higher is it 50% High I
mean depending on where they were at but
they're carrying a lot lot of debt and
now at a higher rate this is the big
concern right now for real estate we
know that to be the case everyone is in
the process of waiting and rate Cuts if
they do that would create an extreme
surge if they just brought interest
rates down right now like this the the
chaos that would happen the inflation
that would happen
as a result of this would be
[Music]
unbelievable um and it's going to have
to happen at some point we'll see if
they can actually shake out the
speculators I don't think so because
they're really in ansy let me tell you
home sales on track for the slowest year
since the housing bus same data but I
can just show you that chart where we're
looking at that and how significant it
has been these sales have been dropping
off nobody wants to touch it now I found
this to be interesting tiny homes are
the hot new homeowner accessory also
known as backyard Cottages or garage
conversions some states are encouraging
their construction to ease housing
shortages we're seeing this also in
other countries too Canada has uh
deployed this as well depends on on the
re on like uh more Regional if you go
down to the city level they have a
housing shortage okay now you're allowed
an additional dwelling on the property
and doing so allows them to
compress more people into these areas
that's what they want to do that's what
they're forced to do because at the same
time they're saying oh no no you're not
allowed to build highrises because
that's going to create too much
congestion all these things so you got
to do this and now we're going to see a
lot of properties where in the back
you've got a single family home you know
a little you know additional dwelling of
some sort like a like a studio apartment
kind of um that that will be able to
bring people in additional income so
maybe they'll do that that will help pay
their extremely expensive mortgage and
you might see people doing this already
where they might have had a you know a
garage back there they convert the
garage spend the minimum they can get
that into a property that is suitable to
live in and now people can find an
affordable house I see this to probably
be employed more all around um in in
these very expensive cities and more
people to be accustomed to it in general
so look out for that and have you seen
that yourself let me know I'm interested
where you have seen this specifically
because this is starting to be something
that I'm seen more common more places
I'm seen more articles about it whether
it's a tiny home whether it's a garage
conversion in in some way I I am seeing
this and this is it going to alleviate
the issue that we just talked about a
few minutes ago no but that's what
they're saying they're trying to help
out and so on mortgage originations will
surge 19% in 2024 as a recession will
force rates down now you might be
Australia but it might be the United
States and it might be Canada it doesn't
matter if they cut rates you are going
to see a surge and the data may show
that well of course um that would be a
very big problem for inflation in
general people would be permanently
unable to afford it that's it any
generation that just didn't buy you got
to inherit it that would be the only way
commercial real estate is set for a more
difficult time in the next couple of
years that's according to Deutsch
Bank he uh points to the rise of remote
work and higher for longer rates as key
factors this is the case and I'm just
trying to highlight once again when we
look at commercial when we look at
residential it's important to separate
the two it is very clear commercials in
a bad situation yes the origination here
might be because of what happened with
mortgage rates with interest rates but
that affects things differently and we
are seen that clearly in the separation
between commercial and residential when
we looked back in
2008 residential was the big one
commercial kind of sidste that but now
today it seems like the tables have
turned let's look at these the different
regions okay and and it really makes a
difference where you are seasonal
hotspots you can look at this very
clearly right here where do the the rich
people all right the Senti millionaires
where do they go and I just found this
article important to connect in because
it tells us where you know we got to
follow the money right and it tells us
where is potentially an interesting
place for more than one reason they
could go
anywhere now you'll see here the
difference year round where they reside
and then holiday so holiday is one thing
it's interesting it might be beautiful
it might be calm and might have a nice
Beach or something but year round I
think that's telling that's where the
money is and that's where perhaps the
economy is that's where people need to
be right like you might see New York but
the New Yorkers as soon as they're not
working they want to get out of there if
they got the money okay you could see uh
Miami on the top of the list all right
for both and there's a good reason for
that Pro business and so on um and of
course the the weather even in the
winter time is is nice so you can look
at that just going down the list on the
other hand Hampton people aren't living
there year round but when it comes time
for holiday things are certainly
changing all right looking at this the
californation of the Texas housing
market it's not just this way so you had
expensive homes in California a lot
cheaper alternatives in Texas and still
jobs right that's the difference you can
move to the middle of nowhere but there
might not be any jobs uh in this case
here a lot of people are upset but it's
not just Texas not just California what
we're seeing here is that people are
moving out of expensive big cities into
the smaller cities and towns and is
disrupting everybody because the people
there they're saying hey I can't afford
this what are you doing you're screwing
everything up also at the same time the
political issues that might be very
different that I know I've heard from
you and you could tell me that people
say you know don't California my Texas
okay I think that's the
line um this is just talking about the
luxury property market and Dubai has
performed better than everywhere else
and there's you know different reasons
for that you're getting money basically
coming from everywhere around the world
including Russia and so that's just very
clear but at the same time I want to
make something know noteworthy here
about Dubai and United Arab Emirates
what have they do with their real estate
well they screwed up big time back years
ago and now they're saying we are not
going to let that happen again they
learned the lesson and they're applying
it today when you want to do
construction on the building everybody's
got to pay up first before they even dig
in the ground the
construction like the money for the
construction is there the the money for
all the units have to be there
everything has to be paid up and then
you could start building now that's one
way to get things going and make sure
that nobody goes bankrupt along the way
and at least make it much more secure
sure um and so they don't want to have
the same mistake and right now there's
so much money flowing in there this is
an easy job for them to do we'll see if
that changes in the future all right if
you want to be able to get the details
of everything I share I mean you got to
go over here to the money
GPS um I'm trying my best to give you
all that through compass that is my free
financial education uh program you've
got everything that you would needed
here I'm trying to bring more and more
services to you but definitely check
this out the link is in the description
I want to see you over there like so
many people have gone through I check
the numbers all the time and I'm really
excited to see that people are getting
this information uh because it's it's
really important okay I I learned this
stuff a long time ago I read all these
books just so that I could be more
informed and uh I hope that you'll get
something out of it thank you very much
for the comment of the day it says the
front door we're talking about layoffs
here so the front door is ain't good
enough anymore they got to kick us out
the back door too I'm sure the side door
is coming next also Apple's the only
company I've seen that gets more
faithful consumers for every new
downgrade they make there's some changes
going on but regarding layoffs here you
could just see that more are potentially
coming and I would hope that everybody
get wise to this to see what's happening
with the economy and understand we'll
conclude with this that you've got to be
aware of these circumstances right now
okay you got to take advantage of where
you can but understand there's more
inflation coming real estate works even
now in this environment here but numbers
have to make sense from day one
if you can't make sense of those numbers
don't get into it don't get into it
don't say I I've heard so many people
yeah it's cash flow negative now but
when this happens I'll be okay that's a
recipe for disaster all right last one
don't be fooled by a quote sure thing
you got to follow the numbers you have
to it has to make sense from day one
follow those numbers and you know keep a
close eye on don't wait for this perfect
moment to occur because it never does
understand that more inflation is the
likely outcome in uh most scenarios we
can see how what countries do they like
to devalue their currency that's for
sure do you agree let me know if not hit
that thumbs down button I want to see
your opinion I'll see you tomorrow take
care